we're back at 8:45 the tribeca film
festival was first launched to help
revitalize lower Manhattan after the
9/11 attacks tonight it kicks off with a
celebration of its 15th year Oscar
winner Robert DeNiro and producer Jane
Rosenthal co-founded the festival and
they're with us this morning good
morning guys good to see you so this did
start Robert as you well know as a
response to 9/11 as getting the city
back up on its feet downtown and now
here you are 15 years later when you
started it did you imagine it as an
ongoing festival or something that was
just for that moment in time well you
would like to think that it would go on
be part of the New York part of the
tradition part of the fabric of the city
and it looks at this point like it could
be and so that's great we had no idea
that we weren't sure with anything at
this point ever happy but we're all
happy
after 15 years Jane it does feel like an
institution it's one of the film
festivals that you hear mentioned that's
important that's got to exceed even your
wildest hopes back then
it certainly has and I'm actually happy
that I'm not interested in an
institution because of it but it's it's
been really extraordinary and we're so
thrilled that this year we can kick off
with a story about the Met Gala and a
winter we also have other films that are
gonna be screening at the Whitney and at
the Guggenheim about Elizabeth Murray
and Mario continent so as a new New York
institution we're bringing in some of
the you know bedrocks of New York we
were just talking Robert about how
democratize filmmaking has become over
these 15 years people with an iPhone or
a laptop can put together a movie you
guys are doing something with snapchat I
know you want to explain step by step
about snapchat world we'll do that later
we know you're but snapchat but it is
remarkable how somebody with a phone can
make a short film in 2006 we were
actually one of the first festivals to
screen a film that was made on a Nokia
phone okay and it was actually amazing
how it looked when it was projected
because it had this tension it felt like
a cinema birthday like a Russell Nene
film so we've always been about
technology and about pushing the
boundaries with technology as long as
you can tell a good story so technology
is great but if you can't tell a good
story
and forget it there was a bit of
controversy some headlines at the
beginning of this year's festival when
it was announced that this film called
VAX twould be screened at the festival
later the festival pulled it was it
because of the backlash were surprised
that people reacted the way that they
did I was shooting a movie I was in the
middle of a lot of stuff I think the
movie is something that people should
see there was a backlash which I haven't
fully explored and I will but and I
didn't want it to start affecting the
festival in ways that I couldn't see but
definitely there's something to that
movie and there's another movie called
trace amounts and these were there
there's a lot of information about
things that are happening with the CDC
the pharmaceutical companies there's a
lot of things that are not said I as a
parent of a child who has autism I'm
concerned and I want to know the truth
and I'm not anti vaccine
I want safe vaccines when you get it
some people can't get a certain type of
shot and they can die from it you know
even penicillin so why should that not
be with vaccine which it isn't so you
said you went public for the first time
saying that your 18 year old son does
have autism that have been a very
private thing for you and part of the
reason you wanted this film shown was to
start that conversation absolutely do
you believe you'll now have a role in
that conversation going flexibly yes
because the thing is that the shut it
down there's no reason to it if you're
scientists let's see let's hear
everybody doesn't seem to want to hear
much about it it's shut down and you
guys are the ones that should be the
investigating do the investigating I
think the film was controversial because
people felt that the filmmaker had been
discredited he I'm not so sure about at
the end of the day even him
Jane that well done with the end one
thing it wasn't it was the weren't
sponsors or donors that were threatening
to pull out in Film Festival it was our
filmmakers and we're known for having
amazing documentary films you can take a
look at our lineup whether it's what
we're starting with tonight or some
other documentaries that are you know
equally controversial that we have at
the festival so is our filmmakers that
part that we're pulling out there's
another of
and we're going to talk about that but
there was another there's another
amazing film that was done by Roger Ross
Williams that won the Audience Award at
Sundance called life animated about
autism and it's it's a really beautiful
film about the Susskind family and it's
a beautiful film but it's another thing
it's the result of it's not about it's
not questioning how people some people
got autism how the vaccines are
dangerous if not given a dangerous to
certain people who are more susceptible
and they don't nobody seems to want to
address that or they say they've
addressed it and it's a closed issue but
it doesn't seem to be because there are
many people who will come out and say no
I saw my kid change like overnight
I saw what happened and I should have
done something and I didn't so that
there's more to this than than meets the
I believe is that is that the experience
you had Robert something changed
overnight it my wife says that I don't
remember but I might my child is
autistic and every kid is different but
there is something there there's
something there that people aren't
addressing and for me to get so upset
here today on the Today Show with you
guys
means there's something there that's all
I wanted was the movie to be seen people
can make their own judgment but you must
see it and other there are other films
other things that also just document and
show you know it's not such a simple
thing
do you regret pulling it now and some
part of me does and part of me says let
me let it go for now and I'll deal with
it later in another way but because I
didn't want the festival to be affected
in a way because it was like a knee-jerk
reaction and especially from the
filmmakers frankly that I thought I you
know the other filmmakers who were in
the past whoever they weren't I didn't I
didn't want you to want to ask yeah but
now I will Robert it is nearly consensus
in the scientific community that there's
no link there do you believe that's not
true idol I believe it's much more
complicated it's much more complicated
than that there there is a link and
they're saying there isn't but there's
certain things there's a the obvious one
is thimerosal which is mercury-based
preservative but there are other things
there that I don't know I'm not a
scientist but I know because I've seen
so much reaction
about justjust let's find out the truth
let's just find out the truth I'm not
you know I'm not anti-vaccine as I say
but I'm pro safe vaccine and there are
some people who cannot take a vaccine
and they have to be found out and and
warned that you just don't give a kid a
bunch of shots and then something
happens that some parents and even it's
documented say I knew I shouldn't have
done it I knew I shouldn't have done it
I talked to the doctor and he's a doctor
I should listen I should listen I did it
the next day the you know imagine how
the parent feels the worry is that
people who hear those words and wonder
about it will then not have their
child's vaccinated which has led to a
higher incidence of things like mom's
enemies I don't know if those statistics
are accurate I'm not the one to say but
I would question even that there's a
kind of a hysteria a knee-jerk reaction
let's see as I say everyone should have
the choice to take vaccines some places
becoming mandatory but it does benefit
the big drug companies well funnily I
take that if you want to start to look
at facts and statistics one of the
things that you do need to look at in
this movie vast is the contradictions of
facts and statistics right off the top
with without what's stated with what
what the rise is with graph is and then
people saying something different so you
need to read the reviews of read the
reviews of that movie make your own
decision clearly the festival has about
100 other movies that are in the
festival this was only going to be
screened once they've certainly had
their voice and their their time and
there's amazing films about other issues
of social impact whether it's the
criminal justice system an amazing film
called the return another film about
Herbalife whistleblower story another
film about drone warfare national bird
which is it really asks a lot of
questions about how we go to war
certainly the festival is about having
conversation and there's also some fun
films too family Fang with Jason Bateman
and Nicole Kidman so we've got a lot for
you at the festival
I was coming and by the way also
highlighted by the 40 year anniversary
of taxi driver website yeah yeah I'm I'm
I'm very curious and interested to go
and see meet everybody who's in it
Martine Jodie and Paul Schrader and
it'll be it'll be interesting cast
reunion thank you so much thank you guys
congratulations
hello today fans thanks for checking out
our YouTube channel subscribe by
clicking that button down there and
click on any of the videos over here to
watch the latest interviews show
highlights and digital exclusives